[narrator]: Tonight on
Most Shocking.
A runaway crook cranks it up
to triple digit speeds.
But his break-neck escape ends
in bone crushing disaster.
Plus, a wannabe cop killer
becomes a four wheel
wrecking ball.
Then, takes a death defying
plunge.
And a fugitive steals
the family RV.
[police officer]: It's on fire!
[narrator]: But his wild ride
goes up in flames.
[police officer]: He's driving
into the river!
[narrator]: Then.
A high-speed hoodlum
races head on into traffic.
And the cop only has one shot
to take him out.
Later.
A drunk driver flees on foot,
and has a brutal run-in
with the law.
This is not a movie.
Everything you're about
to see is real.
- [reporter]: Oh, no!
- Brace yourself.
This is Most Shocking:
High Speed Pursuits.
[police]: We got
a runner on foot.
[narrator]: Fort Ben, Texas.
Robbery suspect, Joseph Flores,
ditched his car after
a high speed chase.
But the law caught up with him.
[police]: Okay.
I got him.
[police sirens]
[narrator]: Flores was arrested,
and spent 11 months behind bars.
Now, a year later,
just one month after
his release,
he's on the run again.
[narrator]: This time,
Flores and his girlfriend
shot two people
during a robbery.
Including a cop.
The sergeant came on and said
shots fired, and that he
had been hit.
[narrator]: Deputy Mike Waller
joins in the furious pursuit.
[narrator]: But the fleeing
pickup soon leaves officers
in the Texas dust.
[Mike]: This guy was hellbent
on gettin' away.
[narrator]: Officers split up
in search of their prey.
[narrator]: Suddenly,
Waller spots the renegades
pushing it to 70
down a side street.
A potential death sentence
for neighborhood children.
I passed a kid on his bicycle
on the sidewalk.
And that was a reality check.
It's kinda like,
"Hey, remember where we are."
[music]
[narrator]: Without warning,
the chase takes a deadly turn.
The girlfriend fires on Waller.
[gunshots]
She actually reached out
the passenger window, and aimed.
[gunshots]
[Mike]: And fired three
or four rounds.
[police]: Shots fired
out the window!
They were obviously,
you know,
would be cop killers.
[narrator]: Waller acts fast.
With one hand on the wheel,
he grabs an assault rifle
from under his dash...
And fires.
[gunshots]
[Mike]: I think I fired
12 rounds.
Through the cab of the truck.
[gunshots]
And then they really took off.
[narrator]: Flores has only
one chance to escape...
The open highway.
[Mike]: They were headed
towards the freeway.
Somethin' just told me that
that's where
he was gonna try to go.
[narrator]: Waller is determined
not to let it get that far.
I took out a tire.
He was not gonna be able to
maintain control of the vehicle.
[narrator]: Waller unloads
another round of lethal force.
[gunshots]
[narrator]: Eight bullets
tear into the truck's tires.
But still, the suspects
thunder onto the highway.
[Mike]: I knew this guy
wasn't gonna last long.
We continued southbound,
I saw that the tire had
started to come apart.
We started to come up
into some traffic,
and he started fish-tailin'.
[Mike]: He lost it.
Came around one vehicle,
totally, from the rear
all the way around to the front.
And there was a black
pickup truck that was
driving southbound also,
that when he fish-tailed around,
he can't...
He hit that truck.
Spun that black truck out,
and he continued on
to hit the wall.
[narrator]: Incredibly,
Flores bails out.
Taking a blind leap
over the wall.
20 feet straight down.
But Waller's first concern
is the trigger-happy girlfriend.
[Mike]: I told her,
"Don't even think about it."
Because it would be
the last thing she did.
[narrator]: Only now
can police turn their attention
- back to Flores.
- We had a visual on him.
I mean, from the minute
he exited the vehicle.
[narrator]: History
repeats itself,
and Flores is once again
apprehended.
Two would-be cop killers
turned Texas streets
into a warzone.
[gunshots]
[narrator]: But thanks
to one determined deputy,
their reign of terror
has hit a dead end.
- tires squealing
- metal scraping
police sirens
[narrator]: Douglas County,
Georgia.
A stolen pickup is surrounded
by a screaming swarm
of cruisers.
[police sirens]
[narrator]: Inside is
Michael Richardson,
a career shoplifter
and car thief.
[narrator]: Deputy Jamie Fowler
helps corral the road rebel.
Four or five deputies
attempted to box him in,
and it didn't work.
[narrator]: Richardson bolts
completely off the pavement.
And rumbles along the tree line
at 90 miles an hour.
Cops can't believe their eyes.
[Jamie]: He had moved
all the way off the road,
and went on the opposite side
of the guardrail.
[narrator]: The driver narrowly
dodges a bridge support,
flying up the embankment,
and blowing out two tires.
[narrator]: Running on rims,
the highway hooligan pulls over,
as if to surrender.
[narrator]: But the suspect
is about to make
another mind-boggling escape.
music
[narrator]: Suddenly...
He careens toward the median.
He cuts straight across
the path of opposing traffic,
and onto the other side
of the freeway.
Fowler and his fellow deputies
stay right with him.
The renegade grinds
back onto concrete.
Then he accelerates,
straight toward an officer.
police sirens
One of our other deputies
had tried to step out
of his vehicle,
was gonna try to take
a shot at him,
and he tried to hit
that deputy.
[narrator]: Fowler is now
chasing a madman,
raging head on into
oncoming cars.
[narrator]: The plan?
A PIT maneuver.
Bump the suspect's fender,
and spin him off the road.
There's just one problem...
This was my first PIT
that I'd ever done.
I'd never attempted one before.
tires squealing
[narrator]: If Fowler
does the PIT wrong,
the pickup will fly into
three lanes of freeway traffic,
ending in certain disaster.
[Jamie]: I might not have had
that opportunity again to do it.
It was now or never.
music
glass shattering
[narrator]: Fowler's first
PIT is a direct hit.
The truck skids,
and launches into
a barrel roll.
[Jamie]: I seen the bottom
of the vehicle come up
past my window.
I tried to do it by the book,
and luckily, it worked out.
[glass shattering]
[narrator]: The petty thief
with a pension for speed
is taken into custody.
police sirens
[Jamie]: I was just glad
it was over with.
Luckily, nobody got hurt.
[narrator]: This reckless
Trailblazer
was willing to take
a shot at anyone.
But when it counted,
it was Deputy Fowler
who hit the bullseye.
glass shattering
[narrator]: Medina, Ohio.
A drunk driving suspect leads
police on a nighttime chase.
police sirens
Heading the wrong way
down a one-way street.
[narrator]: The driver races
towards opposing headlights,
peeling off at the last second.
[narrator]: The chase
cuts through an alley.
[narrator]: As the drunk driver
roars onto a surface street...
[narrator]: Sergeant George
Horton swoops in from the left.
police sirens
[narrator]: The suspect
feels the heat...
And cranks up the speed.
I had him upwards
of 65 mile an hour.
I closed the gap between
his car and my car.
And we're coming to a S-turn,
and the speed we were goin',
I didn't think he was gonna
be able to make it,
and he didn't.
police sirens
metal crunching
[narrator]: The driver bails
out of the wreck,
and takes off running.
music
[narrator]: But there's
something this fugitive
didn't count on...
dog barking
Me bein' in the K-9 unit,
I released a police dog
to try and apprehend him.
[narrator]: Horton lets loose
85 pounds
of snarling German Shepard.
dog barking
[narrator]: Hounded by the K-9,
the suspect runs right
into the street.
dog barking
police sirens
õ
[George]: He didn't see
the sheriff's car comin'.
He turns around and runs
clapping
right into the hood of the car.
The attention of the suspect
was on the dogs so much,
that he ran right into the side
of the sheriff's car,
and knocked himself
to the ground.
Actually stunned himself enough
where the sheriff's deputy
and one of our other officers
grabbed him.
[narrator]: Once under arrest,
the man gives his
intoxicated rational
for this outrageous ride.
[George]: Yeah, it was kind of
amusing to see
him bounce of the car
he never saw coming.
He deserved it.
[narrator]: In the end,
this drunken runner was
charged with DUI,
and resisting arrest.
His punishment for jaywalking,
however,
had already been given.
[narrator]: Coming up.
Terror in the fast lane,
when an outlaw loses control.
Plus...
Speed freaks on the run
crash hard,
and rocket into a
horrifying death roll.
Later.
[reporter]: Ooh.
That was tight.
[narrator]: Female bandits
wreak havoc on the streets,
and get stomped by
the highway patrol.
When Most Shocking:
High Speed Pursuits continues.
dinging
police sirens
[narrator]: Atlanta, Georgia.
[Rick]: Man,
he's really flyin'.
[narrator]: Chopper cameraman,
Rick Nelson,
tracks down a runaway suspect
on the interstate.
[Rick]: Goin' south.
We just got a call saying
it was a police chase, on 400.
He was movin',
doin' about 100, 110.
[narrator]: Nelson has no idea
that he's about to witness
one of the most tragic
and violent pursuits
ever caught on tape.
The man's crime?
Passing a bad check.
[Rick]: Forgery.
That just seems...
Incomprehensible
that forgery,
you'd be runnin' that fast,
and risking your life
and everybody else's life.
[narrator]: Ground units
try to keep up with the suspect.
But they can't match
his reckless pace.
The man clips
a construction barrel,
nearly losing control.
But instead of slowing,
he guns it.
[Rick]: He just can't
control the vehicle,
at that, at that rate of speed.
You're gonna hit somethin'.
[narrator]: The driver
takes a ramp toward
a busy freeway interchange.
It's the last mistake
he'll ever make.
[Rick]: I'm just shocked.
It was a really horrific wreck.
He clipped the rear end
of another small vehicle.
Which just threw him across
the freeway, into a wall.
He was ejected as
he hit the wall.
He went out the window,
over to about the
second lane of 285.
It just was unbelievable.
[narrator]: By the time
cruisers arrived,
there's only a cloud of dust.
Officers rush to the man's aid.
[narrator]: But there's nothing
they can do for him.
It's one of the grimmest scenes
they've ever had to secure.
Their only solace is that
it could have been much,
much worse.
He was the only injury
in, in the whole event.
The thought that nobody else
was injured,
was amazing,
absolutely stunning.
[narrator]: It's a
frightening accident
that Rick Nelson
will never forget.
[Rick]: To risk that kinda life,
and your life,
it's just not worth it.
[narrator]: Chickasaw County,
Mississippi.
[narrator]: Two teenagers wanted
in a Methamphetamine case
speed south at
100 miles an hour.
They were runnin' as fast
as their car would go.
From lane to lane,
around cars.
If the car had run
500 mile an hour,
they would have ran
500 mile an hour in that car.
[narrator]: Suddenly,
the meth-mad teens
go head on with a pickup.
A close brush with death...
Too close.
The deputy has seen enough.
[Adam]: I called
in dispatch device,
"You guys are gonna
have to stop the pursuit."
If not, they're gonna
kill somebody.
[narrator]: Up ahead,
deputies are about to
lay down spikes.
The driver spots them.
He whips the wheel,
and then, disaster.
glass shattering
police sirens
[narrator]: Watch closely.
The speeding car nearly
smashes into a deputy
on the side of the road.
Their escape,
it was minimal.
[narrator]: In the
radical wreck,
the vehicle flips nine times.
Harmon fears the worst.
I expected to find
two dead people.
[narrator]: Amazingly,
the drug-crazed rebels
are still alive.
The teenagers are taken
into custody.
There's enough evidence
to send the driver
to prison for 15 years.
Speed kills.
But fortunately,
these Mississippi meth heads
are off the roads...
For good.
[glass shattering]
police sirens
music
[narrator]: Toledo, Ohio.
Cops can't believe
what they're seeing.
A wanted man is trying
to make a getaway
in the family RV.
[narrator]: And he's driving
this massive motorhome
like a Maserati.
police sirens
[narrator]: 35-year-old
Timothy Kurth
jumped bail on
an assault charge,
and stole his uncle's rig.
The RV picks up speed,
veers across lanes,
and outmaneuvers a
squadron of cruisers.
engine revving
[narrator]: Cops decide
there's only one way
to bring it to a halt...
Flatten the tires.
The spikes are set up
at an intersection.
police sirens
[narrator]: The RV
swerves right,
and dodges the trap.
[narrator]: More spikes
are set up.
This time, they hit home.
- popping
- rumbling
[narrator]: Shredded tires
fly into the path
of police cruisers.
- police sirens
- rumbling
[narrator]: Then a
shower of sparks...
And flames.
police radio feedback
[narrator]: It's now a massive,
rolling fuse.
The RV could explode
at any second.
Without warning,
the streaking comet
dives off the road.
police radio feedback
police sirens
[narrator]: The two ton
fireball roars down a boat ramp,
and plunges into a river.
The RV renegade is pulled
from the water,
and taken into custody.
police sirens
police radio feedback
[narrator]: Fortunately,
his desperate run from the law
went down in flames.
[police]: He's driving
into the river!
[narrator]: Coming up.
[reporter]: Threading the needle
in and out of traffic.
[narrator]: When a
skillful wheelman
outdrives the police,
it takes a foot chase
to bring him down.
But first,
a drunk driver crashes
at a roadblock.
[police]: Stay in the car,
stay in the car!
[narrator]: And ejects
his passenger
right onto the asphalt.
Plus, a maniac in a Mustang
is hammered off the road.
But it takes a fleet
of cruisers
to nail him for good.
When Most Shocking:
High Speed Pursuits returns.
dinging
[narrator]: Port St. Joe,
Florida.
Deputy Tony Yowell
tries to pull over
an intoxicated car thief
in a stolen pickup.
[narrator]: But this drunk
is also a junkie for speed.
I see the guy gun it.
The guy guns it,
turns around,
and we head back
toward the beach.
[narrator]: Deputy Yowell wants
to end this chase
before it reaches
crowded streets.
police sirens
[narrator]: But ramming
the vehicle isn't an option.
The drunken thief has an
innocent passenger in the cab.
[Tony]: I wanted it to end,
but then I didn't want
to put anyone else in danger.
[narrator]: Instead,
they set a trap for him.
[narrator]: Traffic has been
pulled off the road,
and spikes are down.
[narrator]: The driver
spots them too late,
and makes a disastrous move.
engine revving
police sirens
[Tony]: He jerks
the vehicle real hard,
to the right,
to try to avoid
the spike strips.
And all I could think of was,
"Oh, Lord.
He's hurt somebody."
police : He's in the four,
he's in the four!
[police radio feedback]
[narrator]: Yowell races
around the truck
to secure the driver.
police sirens
[Tony]: He starts goin'
out the passenger door.
He was tryin' to get out
of the vehicle to run.
[narrator]: Another officer
rushes in to help control
the belligerent suspect.
He's finally taken into custody.
music
[narrator]: That's when
Deputy Yowell
spots the passenger.
Thrown lifeless on the blacktop.
[Tony]: Face down,
he was just motionless.
With his arms stretched out.
[narrator]: "Signal seven".
A fatality.
Yowell fetches a tarp.
[Tony]: Got a yellow blanket,
and was on my way
to cover him up.
[narrator]: That's when
this grave situation
takes a miraculous turn.
music
[narrator]: Deputy Yowell
is stunned by what he sees.
[Tony]: We thought he was dead.
When we got there, he was...
He was moanin'.
[police]: Where are you hurt at?
- [man]: My, my head! My neck!
- [police]: Your neck?
[police]: Sit still,
we got somebody comin'.
[Tony]: We called
the ambulance to help.
He was in serious trouble.
ambulance sirens
[narrator]: Incredibly,
no one is killed in
the other vehicles, either.
It's an amazing outcome
that the driver,
handcuffed in the cruiser,
is just now beginning
to appreciate.
[narrator]: A few days later,
the driver goes
before a judge.
[Tony]: He walked in and said,
"I'm guilty.
Go ahead and put me in prison."
- He didn't even fight it.
- [narrator]: He's just lucky
that the charges
for this alcoholic rampage
didn't include manslaughter.
glass shattering
[police]: He's doin' about 70.
[narrator]: Del City,
Oklahoma.
[police]: This guy's got me doin
circles all over the place.
[narrator]: A man in a Mustang
charges out of a neighborhood,
and cuts through
a grassy field.
car horn blaring
[narrator]: Passing a semi,
he nearly runs head-on
into a red pickup.
The driver spots an on ramp,
and takes a break-neck chase
to the busy freeway.
[police]: This is I-240.
And he's gonna
get on the highway here.
music
[narrator]: He accelerates
to 110 miles an hour.
Ramming him at high speed
will be risky.
But officers have to
take that chance.
[police]: Hey, we just
spun him out.
The highway patrol
just spun him out.
You can see,
he's spinnin' there.
[narrator]: He's propelled
down the road like a pinball.
But still won't stop.
tires squealing
Another try.
And it's over.
[police]: That's
some good drivin'.
[narrator]: The tenacious cops
finally take him out
with extreme force.
A dozen squad cars
surround the suspect.
[police]: Go, go, go!
music
[narrator]: The
25-year-old menace
is taken into the
police station,
where he'll have
a lot of explaining to do.
tires squealing
[narrator]: Anaheim, California.
[reporter]: Doin' 100
miles an hour,
this guy's really
haulin' now!
[narrator]: The man behind
the wheel of a stolen SUV
leads officers on a
high octane chase.
[reporter]: He's gonna
run out of freeway.
Look at him!
He's just threading the needle
in and out of traffic.
Unbelievable!
[narrator]: The driver
is fast, unpredictable...
And nearly impossible to catch.
police radio feedback
[narrator]: He speeds
through a crosswalk,
with no regard for
helpless pedestrians.
[reporter]: People are trying
to get out of the way.
police sirens
[narrator]: Cops are forced
to take drastic action.
[reporter]: Here we go,
PIT maneuver!
Let's see if this brings
this to an end.
And it doesn't.
[narrator]: Another cop
races in for a second hit.
[reporter]: They're tryin'
to hit him again.
- They miss again.
- [narrator]: But up ahead,
an unexpected roadblock.
[reporter]: You got a train here
blocking his way.
[narrator]: The driver
slams the breaks,
and makes a rubber-shredding
right turn.
Then he tries to shake the cops
by doubling back.
[reporter]: It looks like
he's gonna go across
the median here, again.
[narrator]: Unfortunately,
the smash up isn't enough
to keep the man from
making a fast break.
[reporter]: And he's out,
and he's gonna make
a run for it.
[narrator]: But his footwork
isn't as slick as his driving.
[reporter]: Looks like his pants
are falling down there
just a little bit.
[narrator]: He darts
into a parking lot.
Where Sergeant Chris Roosen
cuts him off,
with a crushing takedown.
[Chris]: My first instinct
was to push him down,
but just prior to me
contacting him,
he spun on me and took
a fighting stance.
So, I just lunged
underneath his arms.
And threw him to the ground.
music
[narrator]: This
hell raiser's next ride
will be in the back
of a squad car.
tires squealing
Coming up.
[reporter]: Weavin' in and out
of traffic at maybe 100.
[narrator]: Police stay
hot on the heels
of some shoe thieves,
then slam the door on
their daring getaway.
- [police]: Okay, I got him.
- [narrator]: Plus...
The nighttime eye in the sky
hunts down a gang of outlaws.
[police]: Do what you gotta do.
[police]: Okay.
[narrator]: While
cops on the ground reel him in.
Then,
a carjacker's wrong way
flight from justice
ends in a pulverizing crash.
Next on Most Shocking:
High Speed Pursuits.
dinging
[narrator]: Memphis,
Tennessee.
A carjacker and his girlfriend
are on the run
in a stolen Honda.
[reporter]: Chase is now
westbound on Winchester
here, tower.
[narrator]: Two police units
close in.
[reporter]: This guy's headed
right to the airport.
[narrator]: Then,
without warning,
the fleeing driver
blasts across the median.
It's a suicide run
into oncoming traffic.
[reporter]: Oh...
car horns blaring
[narrator]: Innocent drivers
are suddenly caught
in the crosshairs
of a speeding juggernaut.
[reporter]: Man, I got
a bad feelin' about this one.
[narrator]: With
nowhere to run...
[reporter]: Ah, this is bad.
This is bad.
Oh, no!
Looks like they have
just crashed out.
[narrator]: The criminals
plow into a packed Sedan.
[reporter]: Oh, no!
[narrator]: Both cars
traveling at more than
60 miles an hour.
tires squealing
[narrator]: Flames erupt
from the mangled wreckage.
Greg Johnson is working
at his salvage business
on the nearby corner.
I looked out my window,
to see what was goin' on.
Two cars collided
with each other.
My heart was just pumpin'.
And I saw the fire,
so I ran back inside and
grabbed the fire extinguisher.
And I was saying to myself,
you know,
"This car could blow up
any second."
[narrator]: Greg's heroism
prevents the flames
from spreading.
Three people survived
the mega force
of the violent collision.
The carjacker is one of them.
ambulance sirens
[narrator]: But his female
accomplice doesn't make it.
Fortunately,
after all the close calls,
no other lives are lost
in this devastating pursuit.
[reporter]: Ah, this is bad.
This is bad.
music
[reporter]: Oh, no!
[police radio feedback]
[narrator]: Seminole, Florida.
A police chopper's
infrared camera
allows officers to see
everything under the cover
of darkness.
[narrator]: Tonight,
it catches a purse snatcher
and his accomplice
trying to outrun the cops.
[narrator]: Sergeant James
Ingram is right on their tail.
During a pursuit,
I always feel that
my life is in danger.
I mean, that comes
with the job.
[narrator]: Ingram guns the gas,
and gains on the felons.
He rams the bumper.
tires squealing
[narrator]: And spins
the pickup off the road.
The truck narrowly misses
a power pole,
and disappears behind
a wall of dust.
[narrator]: A closer look
shows one of the crooks
being thrown out of the truck.
music
[narrator]: His buddies
try to run.
They jump over
his crumpled body,
but are quickly taken down
by the cops.
[James]: There's so many
deputies involved that
the guys had no avenue
for escape.
[narrator]: And no chance
of ditching the evidence.
[James]: During the pursuit,
I actually observed a purse,
a dark colored purse,
bein' thrown out
the passenger side window.
music
[narrator]: The police
send the message,
in their part of town,
justice is never blind.
Up next.
[reporter]: He blows
right through the intersection.
[narrator]: A car thief
leads police on a deadly run
though the Hollywood hills,
only to crash...
And burn.
Then,
a drunken lunatic loses control.
And launches into a
bone-jarring roll over.
When Most Shocking:
High Speed Pursuits continues.
dinging
police radio feedback
[narrator]: Hollywood,
California.
[reporter]: He blows
right through the intersection.
Red light!
[narrator]: Police are on
a blazing pursuit
with the man driving
a stolen SUV.
- And he could be packing heat.
- [reporter]: LAPD believes
they've got an armed
and dangerous suspect,
that's why they started
the pursuit in the first place.
Hard on the breaks,
suspect sees...
Oh, oh!
He almost gets hit!
[narrator]: Just when it looks
like cops might nab him...
[reporter]: Now he's boxed in.
He's gonna have to
go around that car.
[narrator]: He takes
the chase off-road.
[reporter]: Southbound
on the curb!
And there's a pedestrian
right there.
[narrator]: The suspect
nearly runs over
two civilians on the sidewalk.
Then the road warrior
makes a run for the hills.
And into LA's most
expensive neighborhood...
The exclusive hillside estates
of Mulholland Drive.
The crazed driver
amps up the danger
by cutting his lights.
[reporter]: He's
blacked out now.
Blacked out, no lights
on that car.
[narrator]: He flies
down the mountain.
Hitting blind curves
in the pitch black.
[reporter]: This is
very dangerous because
it's so dark out there.
Windy, windy roads
up in those hills.
police sirens
[narrator]: There's a hairpin
turn straight up ahead,
but he never sees it.
[reporter]: Oh,
he loses control there.
Hits the guardrail.
glass shattering
[reporter]: And the car,
it overturned!
[narrator]: He enters
the turn too fast,
slams a hill,
and flips.
police sirens
[reporter]: The car overturned.
[reporter]: Oh, it's on fire!
The suspect is trapped inside.
[narrator]: The engine ignites.
The gas tank could blow
at any second,
but police risk their own lives
to save the man
they fear is armed.
[reporter]: They're gonna try
to get him out of there
- before it completely burns.
- [police]: Come on, now.
Come on now,
come on!
[narrator]: The suspect
is cuffed and later booked.
His night of blazing
through Hollywood streets
has come to a full stop.
police sirens
[narrator]: A late night
car chase on the backroads
of Decatur, Alabama.
[narrator]: A suspected
drunk driver
snakes across the yellow line.
police sirens
[narrator]: The
intoxicated passenger
tosses empty bottles
from the window.
[police sirens]
[narrator]: Trooper Mark Wisner
keeps pace,
but on these dark country roads,
a chase can go bad in a hurry.
I'm very concerned
that this driver is gonna
hurt some innocent person.
[narrator]: To his surprise,
the truck pulls
into a driveway.
[police]: 239, only this time,
got a county man with me.
[narrator]: It looks like
he's going to give up.
beeping
[narrator]: But the boozer has
no intention of surrendering.
[narrator]: The driver punches
the gas and peels out.
tires squealing
[narrator]: Wisner spots
a sharp curve ahead.
A deathtrap at these
harrowing speeds.
We were traveling at
90 miles an hour.
I see that there's
another vehicle ahead of him,
and I notice that he's not
gonna slow down for the curve.
[narrator]: The trooper
can only watch
as the disaster unfolds.
[metallic thundering]
[narrator]: The drunk driver
slams a pickup,
and flips...
Eight neck-snapping rolls.
The headlights reveal
a horrifying sight.
The passenger is
violently thrown
from the twisted wreckage.
[Mark]: When I saw
the vehicle go off the road,
somebody had to be hurt.
If not killed.
[narrator]: Wisner discovers
the man lying motionless
in the grass.
[narrator]: He's still alive.
His head only inches away
from being crushed.
If the truck had overturned
one more time,
the passenger would have
been killed.
[narrator]: Incredibly,
the drunk driver survives
the violent roll over
without a scratch.
He's arrested,
and sentenced to three years.
It's a small price to pay
for a night of liquored up
lawlessness
that nearly cost his life.
[Mark]: I've seen
some bad wrecks.
But this is the worst wreck
I've ever witnessed.
[reporter]: Ooh,
that was tight.
[narrator]: Coming up.
Two women on the run are taken
on a record breaking ride.
police sirens
metal scraping
[narrator]: When Most Shocking:
High Speed Pursuits continues.
[dinging]
[police]: Moving from
the number one lane
to the number three lane,
weaving in and out
of traffic, speeding 100.
[narrator]: San Diego,
California.
police radio feedback
[narrator]: Officer
Brian Williams
flies down a freeway in pursuit
of two female robbery suspects.
[police]: She's passing
vehicles at the center divide.
beeping
A woman driver,
looks like a woman passenger.
Thelma and Louise situation,
you know?
Are we goin' to the
Grand Canyon next?
[narrator]: Actually,
the women are wanted
for stealing merchandise
from a shoe store.
[police]: Did she throw
something out of the vehicle?
Throwing what looks like
paperwork or something
- out of the vehicle.
- beeping
Like, what is that?
You know?
It's not,
it's not money.
They had stolen shoes,
and they were throwin'
shoes out the window.
They're throwin' shoes
out the window.
Come on.
[narrator]: It's
a bizarre chase.
But for Officer Williams,
it's also deadly serious.
They were passin' vehicles
in the one,
by drivin' in the
number two lane.
And drivin' on the shoulder,
and coming too close to people.
And I thought,
"Man, they're gonna crash
if they keep drivin' like that."
police sirens
[reporter]: Ooh,
that was tight.
[Brian]: And I don't wanna
get too close to 'em,
'cause if they crash,
then I'm gonna get involved
in the crash.
[reporter]: About
30 seconds out.
[narrator]: Suddenly, the
suspects rocket off the freeway.
police sirens
[police]: Okay, taking
Greenfield exit.
[police]: I copy,
taking Greenfield exit.
police sirens
[narrator]: Officer Williams
sees his chance,
and goes for it.
police sirens
music
- metal scraping
- [police]: Okay.
Suspect is PIT'ed at Greenfield.
police radio feedback
[narrator]: The
record breaking PIT maneuver
brings the chase to
a screeching halt.
[police]: That was fast.
- beeping
- police radio feedback
[narrator]: Williams
grinds the getaway car
with punishing force.
I know there's a wall
across the street,
just happens to be about
300 feet across the street.
So, I pushed him all the way
across Greenfield Drive.
I can see the driver.
I can see that she knew
that she didn't have control
of this pursuit anymore.
I had the control
of the pursuit.
police sirens
[police]: Okay.
She's outta the car.
- Struggling with the officers.
- police radio feedback
[Brian]: She knew
it was over then.
Her plans had failed.
[narrator]: Thanks
to the officer's daring action,
the shoe bandits
will be cooling their heels...
In jail.
- police sirens
- metal scraping
[police]: Well, that was fast.
[narrator]: These are the
incredible true life stories...
[police]: Get him out!
Get him out!
[narrator]: Of
law enforcement officers
who risk their lives
in a daily mission
to protect and serve.
[dinging]
[music]